New guide prompt file (#1168)
meshcloud/meshcloud-docs: .github/instructions/guide.prompt.md

---

> applyTo: '**/new-guide-*.md'

Reviewer: f: You named the file like a prompt, but what you actually have here is an instruction. So you should call the file guide.instructions.md. An instruction is applied also to existing files. A prompt instead is accessible via the slash commands in the copilot chat window. And they are usually used to create new files. So it also makes sense to add a prompt for writing a guide. In the prompt file, which must not be located in the instructions folder, but in the prompts folder, you can then describe what the user needs to provide for actually writing a guide. You could also use tools like executing commands or searching existing files, etc in that prompt file to automatically determine some context. But that might be hard for the guides. So I would keep the prompt a bit more fuzzy, but let the AI make sure that the user provides the most important content for a guide. The header of a prompt then looks like this:

```
---
mode: 'agent'
tools: ['editFiles', 'search']
---
```

You can also find many examples in the meshfed-release repository for it.

---

# Guide Writing Prompt for meshStack Documentation

When writing a guide for meshStack, follow this structure to ensure consistency, clarity, and a user-centric experience. Use the example from `new-guide-how-to-kickstart-your-IDP.md` as a template.

## Structure

1. **Frontmatter**
   - `id`: Unique identifier for the guide.
   - `title`: Clear, concise title describing the guide's purpose.

2. **Introduction**
   - Use a `:::note` block titled "What is this guide about?".
   - Briefly explain the guide's purpose and what users will achieve.

3. **Challenge**
    - If there is a clear business challenge or problem that the guide addresses, describe it here.

4. **Prerequisites**
   - List any requirements, permissions, or setup steps needed before starting.

5. **Step by Step Guide**
   - Provide clear, numbered steps for the user to follow.
   - Use subheadings for major steps if needed.
   - Include tips, best practices, or warnings in callout blocks (`:::tip`, `:::warning`, etc.).

6. **Related Resources**
   - Link to relevant concepts, other guides, or documentation for further learning.
   - Split this in two sections: "Concepts" and "Guides".

## Tone and Style

> - Follow the meshStack tone instructions

Reviewer: d: Does AI know what the meshStack tone instructions are? Or do you have to describe them additionally? When I read it, I would not know how to achieve this tone

Author: Its a file Johannes already created that is applied to all copilot actions

- Focus on benefits and actionable steps.
- Avoid filler words and keep instructions efficient.
- Use Chicago Manual of Style for capitalization of headings and subheadings.
- Use active voice and direct language.
- Don't include definitions of concepts that are already covered in the documentation.

## Example Template

```markdown
---
id: new-guide-example
title: How to [Action/Feature]
---

:::note What is this guide about?
Briefly describe the guide's purpose and what users will achieve.
:::

## Prerequisites

- List requirements here.

## Step by Step Guide

1. Step one.
2. Step two.
3. ...

## Related Resources

- [Relevant Concept](concept-id)
- [Related Guide](guide-id)
```

---

> Use this prompt as a checklist and template whenever you create or update a guide in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this instruction as a checklist and template whenever you create or update a guide.
```
